Making changes to ref new adapter scaffold (#1362)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/contributing/building-a-new-adapter.md

This guide will walk you through the first two steps, and provide some resources to help you validate that your new adapter is working correctly.

## Scaffolding a new adapter

> To create a new adapter plugin you will use the [dbt-database-adapter-scaffold](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-database-adapter-scaffold) to trigger an interactive session which will allow to replace default naming, author information, versioning, and be used to augment other variables in the generation of your starting project.

Reviewer: I noticed this line above:

> you'll probably need to build a new adapter, or extend an existing one

I think it would be worth mentioning here that, if your database is forked off / wire-compatible with another database (e.g. Postgres or Apache Spark), you might be able to skip a lot of the scaffolding / setup work by just creating a thin wrapper around the already-existing plugin.

E.g. the amount of code in the [`dbt-materialize` plugin](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/materialize/tree/main/misc/dbt-materialize/dbt) is really very small. If they were to create it today, I don't think it would be worth them going through the scaffold—most expedient would just be subclassing `dbt-postgres` right from the outset.

@dataders Curious to hear your thoughts here too

Example usage:

```
$ cookiecutter gh:dbt-labs/dbt-database-adapter-scaffold
```

The generated boilerplate starting project will include basic adapter plugin file structure, examples of macros, high level method descriptions as seen below in this document.

> This rest of this guide will assume that a SQLAdapter is being used.

Reviewer: I think we owe people an explanation of what a `SQLAdapter` is, versus a `BaseAdapter`. Quick points to hit:
- Does your database have a complete SQL API? Can it perform "operational" tasks using SQL (creating schemas, dropping schemas, querying an `information_schema` for metadata)? If so, then it can be a `SQLAdapter`
- Most adapters are SQL adapters
- It's totally possible to build a `BaseAdapter`, it will just be more difficult. Check out the implementation in [`dbt-bigquery`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-bigquery) if you get stuck.

This guide will walk you through the first two steps, and provide some resources to help you validate that your new adapter is working correctly.

## Scaffolding a new adapter

> To create a new adapter plugin you can use one of two strategies usually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a new adapter plugin, you can use one of two strategies:
```

> 1. If your adapter is forked from or compaitiable with a pre exisiting adapter ex. (postgres => redshift, dbt-spark => dbt-databricks) you may be able to tap into a lot of preexisting functionality already cutting a lot of setup from scratch work by creating a wrapper around the existing adapter plugin.

Reviewer 2: @jtcohen6 do we recommend this option to our users? If so, we don't give users a descriptive way to do this. Would we want to add that?

Reviewer 3: I think it is needed, but would require more engineering to make happen (if we want the experience to be as solidy as as the 2nd strategy is). I still think a template for simple inheiritance here's [dbt-synapse's __init__.py](https://github.com/dbt-msft/dbt-synapse/blob/master/dbt/adapters/synapse/__init__.py). The classy thing would be a way to pull the parent class's methods inot the scaffold, but as a first rev, we could just have the inheiritance with no commented-out classes.

Reviewer 2: It sounds like we should remove this bullet point for now then and we can add it back in once we have a better plan here. It shouldn't hold up the docs

> 2. If you're making an adapter plugin from scratch, you can use the [dbt-database-adapter-scaffold](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-database-adapter-scaffold) to trigger an interactive session which will generate a scaffolding for you to build upon.

Reviewer 3: I think it'd be easier to just point to the docs of the scaffolding repo

> 2. If your making a adapter plugin from scratch can use the [dbt-database-adapter-scaffold](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-database-adapter-scaffold) to trigger an interactive session which will allow to replace default naming, author information, versioning, and be used to augment other variables in the generation of your starting project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If you're making an adapter plugin from scratch, you can use the [dbt-database-adapter-scaffold](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-database-adapter-scaffold) to trigger an interactive session which will generate a scaffolding for you to build upon.
```

    Example usage:

    ```
    $ cookiecutter gh:dbt-labs/dbt-database-adapter-scaffold
    ```

> The generated boilerplate starting project will include basic adapter plugin file structure, examples of macros, high level method descriptions as seen below in this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The generated boilerplate starting project will include a basic adapter plugin file structure, examples of macros, high level method descriptions, etc.
```

> One of the most important choices you will make during the cookiecutter generation will revolove around the field for `is_sql_adapter` which is a boolean used to correctly apply imports for either a `SQLAdapter` or `BaseAdapter`. Knowing which you will need requires a deeper knowledge of your selected database but a few good guides for the choice are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most important choices you will make during the cookiecutter generation will revolve around the field for `is_sql_adapter` which is a boolean used to correctly apply imports for either a `SQLAdapter` or `BaseAdapter`. Knowing which you will need requires a deeper knowledge of your selected database but a few good guides for the choice are.
```

> - Does your database have a complete SQL API? Can it perform tasks using SQL such as (creating schemas, dropping schemas, querying an `information_schema` for metadata calls)? If so, it is more likely to be a SQLAdapter where you would say True to `is_sql_adapter`.

Reviewer 3: perhaps just link to [this wiki article](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/wiki/New-Adapter-Information-Sheet)? or copy this section into this doc so the wiki doesn't need to exist anymore?

Author: when i updated to current it added that section you put in that refs the wiki so hopefully that has us covered.

Reviewer 3: ok awesome!

> - Does your database have a complete SQL API? Can it perform tasks using SQL such as (creating schemas, dropping schemas, querying an `information_schema` for metadata calls)? If so, it is more likely to be a SQLAdapter where you would say True to `is_sql_adapter`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Does your database have a complete SQL API? Can it perform tasks using SQL such as creating schemas, dropping schemas, querying an `information_schema` for metadata calls? If so, it is more likely to be a SQLAdapter where you would set `is_sql_adapter` to `True`.
```

Author: Changes made!

> - Does your database have a complete SQL API? Can it perform tasks using SQL such as (creating schemas, droping schemas, querying an `information_schema` for metadata calls) if so it is more likely to be a SQLAdapter where you would say True to `is_sql_adapter`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Does your database have a complete SQL API? Can it perform tasks using SQL such as (creating schemas, dropping schemas, querying an `information_schema` for metadata calls)? If so, it is more likely to be a SQLAdapter where you would say True to `is_sql_adapter`.
```

- Most adapters do fall under SQL adapters which is why we chose it as the default `True` value.

> - It is very possible to build out a fully functional `BaseAdapter` just will require a little more ground work as it doesn't come with some prebuilt methods the `SQLAdapter` class provides. see `dbt-bigquery` as a good guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It is very possible to build out a fully functional `BaseAdapter`. This will require a little more ground work as it doesn't come with pre-built methods that the `SQLAdapter` class provides. See `dbt-bigquery` as a good guide.
```

To assure that `dbt --version` provides the latest dbt core version the adapter supports, be sure include a `__version__.py` file. The filepath will be `dbt/adapters/<adapter_name>/__version__.py`. We recommend using the latest dbt core version and as the adapter is made compatible with later versions, this file will need to be updated. For a sample file, check out this [example](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/develop/plugins/snowflake/dbt/adapters/snowflake/__version__.py).

> It should be noted that both of these files are included in the bootstrapped output of the `dbt-database-adapter-scaffold` so when using that cookiecutter, these files will be included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It should be noted that both of these files are included in the bootstrapped output of the `dbt-database-adapter-scaffold` so when using the scaffolding, these files will be included.
```
